Project of Decree on the Structural and Functional Organization of the Liberland Police


The President of the Free Republic of Liberland

Considering the Proclamation Decree of the State of Liberland dated April 13, 2015,
Considering the Provisional Constitution of the Free Republic of Liberland,
Considering the Bill of Rights,
Considering the Presidential Decree for the creation and ethics of the Liberland Police,


DECREE


STRUCTURAL AND FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE LIBERLAND POLICE
GENERAL POLICE DIRECTORATE


I - GENERAL DIRECTORATE

The General Police Directorate is entrusted to a Chief Director appointed by the Minister of Internal Affaires 
following an investigation by the Central Intelligence Service and advisory opinion of the Secretariat of Magistracy.

He leads all Sub-Directorates and Services of the Liberland Police. It implements the public safety policies defined 
by the Minister of Internal Affairs and homeland security policies defined by the Central Intelligence Service. 
He conducts the missions received from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, 
the Central Intelligence Service and possibly from the Secretariat of Magistracy or from the First Judge of the 
Supreme Court. He organizes the domestic office of the Police, which he controls a priori and a posteriori. 
If necessary, he delegates this control to the Human Resources, Training and Staff Management Sub-Directorate.

A General Secretariat, reporting to the Chief Director, is responsible for managing all daily administrative duties 
of the Directorate General and all Sub-Directorates.


II - SUB-DIRECTORATES

1 - SUB-DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND HOMELAND SECURITY


The Sub-Directorate of Public Safety and Homeland Security is under the command of a Divisional Commissioner 
assisted by a Senior Commissioner who supplements or replaces him in case of incapacity or absence. 
This Commissioner implements the directives and measures issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the public 
safety policy and the Central Intelligence Service for the homeland security policy. To accomplish his mission, 
the Commissioner controls brigades spread over the entire territory of Liberland which are responsible 
for ensuring the safety of land, air and river borders and public order in the cities and in the whole country.


1-1 - Public Safety Brigades

These brigades composed of ten people each perform all public safety tasks assigned to the Police. Each brigade 
consists of a Chief Brigade, a Deputy Officer and eight agents. The staff of these brigades are trained to handlings 
and use of individual and collective weapons, martial arts, law enforcement and emergency first aid. On the territory 
of Liberland they permanently carry their handgun whether they are on duty or at rest. Contrariwise, collective weapons 
are returned to the armory at the end of each outer mission. Each staff is equipped with a P1 individual protection 
package which composition is defined by a circular of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Each brigade is equipped with 
four-wheel-drive vehicles and ATVs in sufficient numbers to ensure the assigned missions.



1-2 - Land, river and air borders surveillance Brigades

These brigades, consisting of ten staff each implement every border surveillance missions. Each brigade consists of a 
Chef Brigade, a Deputy Officer and eight agents. These staff receive the same training as the Public Safety Brigades 
and are fitted with the same equipment. To achieve their territory surveillance missions, these brigades are provided 
with means of traveling appropriate to their specificities :
- Land motor vehicles (4-wheel-drive or ATV)
- Air assets (helicopters, drones)
- River patrol boats.
All staff are trained to implement the motorized land vehicles, drones and boats. Air assets (helicopters) are 
entrusted to skilled pilots whose headcount depends on the needs. Maintenance of all these assets is outsourced.
Chiefs and Officiers of these brigades, in constant contact with the Homeland Security Brigade, maintain the best 
possible relations with the foreign Border Police staff in the vicinity.


1-3 - Homeland Security Brigade

This Brigade, consisting of ten staff, is responsible for territorial security. The Brigade consists of a Chief 
Brigade, a Deputy Officer and height special agents. The Chief Brigade implements the security policy of the territory 
prepared by the Central Intelligence Service. He acts under the orders of the Chief Director of the Police. 
The organization, operation and logistics of this Brigade are subject to a presidential decree classified as "secret".


2 - SUB-DIRECTORATE OF THE JUDICIAL POLICE

The Sub-Directorate of the Judicial Police is under the commandment of a Divisional Commissioner. It implements the 
guidelines and measures set by the Ministries of Internal Affairs and Justice. To accomplish his mission, 
the Commisionner commands Judicial Police Brigades, which staff act in accordance with the Constitution, 
the Bill of Rights and the Criminal Code, to notice serious crimes, collect evidences and to seek offenders. 
The Divisional Commissioner is assisted by a Senior Commissioner who supplements or replaces him in case of incapacity 
or absence.


2-1 - Judicial Police Brigades

These brigades, consisting of ten people each, perform criminal investigations of their initiative, after complaint 
or requisitions from judges of the Ministry of Justice. Each Brigade consists of a Chef Brigade, a Deputy Officer, 
six investigators and two criminal identification technicians. Staffing equipment (individual or collective weapons, 
vehicles, and P1 package) are consistent with the description at Article 1-1. Technicians are equipped with hardware 
specific to their technics.
All staff of these Brigades implement legal proceedings issued by the Ministry of Justice.



3 - HUMAN RESOURCES, TRAINING AND STAFF MANAGEMENT SUB-DIRECTORATE


The Human Resources, Training and Staff Management Sub-Directorate is under the orders of Divisional Commissioner 
assisted by a Senior Commissioner who supplements or replaces him in case of incapacity or absence. The Commissioner 
implements the recruitment, training and staff management policies edicted by the Ministry of Internal Afairs. 
He directs the Recruitment Service and the Training and Staff Management Service.

3-1 - Recruitment Service

This service is headed by a Police Commander, assisted by five agents specialized in human resources. The manager 
aims to recruit, as required, future staff of the Liberland Police in accordance with instructions received. 
In his absence, he is replaced by the Chief of Training and Personnel Management.

3-2 - Service of Training and Staff Management

The service, headed by a Police Commander attended by ten agents specializing in Training and Staff Management, 
is responsible for the training of all staff after their admission into the Police. Specialized training - 
judicial police - criminal identification technicians - all licences for land vehicles, river patrol boats and 
drones piloting, are outsourced depending on the needs expressed by the Police Directorate. To achieve this, 
the Head of Service has been delegated authority to select external training organizations.
Regarding staff management, the Head of Service, under the control of the Deputy Director of Human Resources, 
Training and Staff Management, and the Chief Director of the Police, is responsible for the preparation of the 
annual rating of all the staff, the sanctions (rewards and punishments) and general litigation. Every year he 
prepares and proposes the staff promotion list which he established based on needs expressed by the Chief Director 
and submit it to his superiors for approval before decision by the Minister of Internal Affairs.
Finally, he manages with the Secretariat of Magistracy and the Attorney General, the annual assessment of 
Judicial Police Officers. In case of breach or serious misconduct by a Judicial Police Officer, he processes 
the entire file initialized and instructed by the Attorney General. It implements the decisions taken 
against the said Judicial Police Officer, and, depending on the seriousness of the charges, suggests professional 
sanctions including banishment from the Police, to the Minister of Internal Affaires under covered of the Chief 
Director.






Done at         , on

Signature
President of the Free Republic of Liberland


Signature
Vice-President of the Free Republic of Liberland

